# COVID-19-Reproduction-Rate-Prediction
Feature evaluation and performance optimization of Decision Tree based Ensemble Regression Models for Covid-19 Reproduction Rate Prediction.

See the report for detailed explanation of the scope of this project.

# Abstract
In this project we study the relative prediction accuracy of non-linear regression models on the COVID-19 reproduction rate. Decision tree regression models consider influence of significant features rather than prediction based solely on assumption that past data resembles the future. Three regression models, Random Forest Regressor, Gradient Boosting and XGBOOST that can be used for prediction of the reproduction rate are implemented. 24 features (for example total cases or deaths per million) are ranked using Random Forest Regressor, Gradient Boosting and XGBOOST feature selection algorithms, and nine of them are selected according to the ranks assigned by the above mentioned models. The performance of the respective predictions is evaluated by Mean Squared Error (MSE), Determination Coefficient (R-Squared), Mean Absolute Error (MAE) and Root Mean Squared Error (RMSE), and the models are tested on the COVID-19 date for Norway and Sweden. Hyperparameter tuning using Grid and RandomSearchCV is applied on the models. We confirm that both the application of feature selection and hyperparameter tuning improves the prediction accuracy. We find the Gradient Boosting regression model to be the best performing with the R-squared score of 0.99369 and MSE of 0.00055 for the Sweden data and the R-squared score of 0.99014 and MSE of 0.0006 for the Norway data being the best achieved results. The most influential features for the application of this algorithm are: total cases, total cases per million, total deaths, total deaths per million and positive rate.
